ai-vector-search-fundamentals/5-image_search/image_search.md, before:

# Similarity Search on Images

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to create vector indexes and run approximate similarity searches on images.

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Image Similarity Search

In the previous labs, we looked at embedding models and similarity search on text-based data. Now we are going to look at something even more impressive. The ability to use words or phrases to search images. It is also possible to use images to search for similar images, but we will keep it simple in this lab and just use text-based searches to find semantically similar images. The US National Parks dataset that we have been using has two tables. One that describes parks and then another that has images for those parks. We are going to search the images and then also combine a query to join the two tables and look through images based on a general location.

The image vector embeddings have already been created since that would have taken too long for this lab environment, but we will still take a look at them. The embedding model that was used to create the vector embeddings was the CLIP multi-modal embedding pipeline, and can be split into two different ONNX compatible embedding models to allow searching for images based on text words and/or phrases or actual images. This is described in more detail in the [Oracle AI Vector Search User's Guide] (https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/onnx-pipeline-models-multi-modal-embedding.html). The text-based model has already been loaded into the database as you saw earlier, and is called CLIP\_VIT\_TXT.


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Look at the image embedding model characteristics
* Describe the vector column in the images table PARK_IMAGES
* Run exhaustive similarity searches for specific images
* Run combined similarity and relational searches

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Account (oracle.com account)
* All previous labs successfully completed


## Task 1: Display the CLIP embedding model

The CLIP embedding model has already been converted to ONNX format and loaded into the database. This was described in the lab introduction and is the same model that was used to create the vectors of the park images, which were also pre-loaded.

1. Display the CLIP embedding model:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function, algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model query](images/clip_emb_model.png " ")

      
2. Display the model details:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, attribute_name, attribute_type, data_type, vector_info
    FROM user_mining_model_attributes
    WHERE model_name = 'CLIP_VIT_TXT'
    ORDER BY 1,3;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model details query](images/clip_emb_model_details.png " ")

    You may notice that the VECTOR\_INFO column displays 'VECTOR(512,FLOAT32)' for this model which is different than what we saw for the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 model which was VECTOR(384, FLOAT32).  This means that the CLIP text model is wider as it has 512 dimensions.


## Task 2: Display the Vector column in the PARKS\_IMAGES table

In this task we will take a look at the PARK\_IMAGES table. The table itself has a URL to the park images, they are not actually stored in the table. Vector embeddings of each of those images have been created and stored in the IMAGES\_VECTOR column. These embeddings were created externally using the CLIP embedding model.

1. Display the columns in the PARK\_IMAGES table by clicking on the arrow next to the PARK\_IMAGES table in the SQL Developer Web navigator column on the left. Alternatively you can right-click on the PARK\_IMAGES table and click the "Open" option.

    See the image below:

    ![vector column](images/park_images_columns.png " ")

2. Display one of the vectors in IMAGE\_VECTOR column:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT image_vector
    FROM park_images
    FETCH FIRST 1 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![image vector](images/image_vector.png " ")

    You can select the IMAGE\_VECTOR and then click on the eye image to expand the entire vector:

    ![image vector details](images/image_vector_details.png " ")

## Task 3: Run image based similarity searches

In this task we will run similar queries to the ones we ran in the previous labs, but now we will use our text phrases to search the image vectors, not text vectors.

1. First we can search for Civil War park images:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, url
    FROM park_images
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'Civil War' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![civil war query](images/query_civil_war_1_run.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL and then click on the eye icon the URL will open in a new window:

    ![civil war url](images/query_civil_war_2_click_eye.png " ")
    
    If you then highlight the URL and right click on it a dialog box will open. Depending on your browser, there should be an option to open the URL in a new window. The following example uses Google Chrome, other browsers use slightly different terminology. With Google Chrome you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser window:
    
    ![civil war url](images/query_civil_war_3_open_url.png " ")
    
    You should see an image like the following:

    ![civil war open image](images/civil_war.png " ")

2. Now let's see if we can find images that have rock climbing:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, url
    FROM park_images
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![rock climbing query](images/query_rock_climbing.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL, click on the eye icon, then highlight the URL and right click you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser tab:

    ![rock climbing image](images/rock_climber.png " ")

3. Lastly, let's search for waterfalls, but let's add a twist. We will add a join to the PARKS table so we can include the park location details. Since the author of this Lab is based out of Redwood Shores, CA we will restrict our query of parks with waterfalls to the western United States:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT p.description, p.city, p.states, pi.url
    FROM park_images pi, parks p
    WHERE pi.park_code = p.park_code
      AND p.states in ('CA','OR','NV','WA','AZ','CO')
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(pi.image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'waterfall' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![waterfall query](images/query_waterfall_location.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL, click on the eye icon, then highlight the URL and right click you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser tab:

    ![waterfall image](images/waterfall.png " ")


You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search, April 2025

Commit message:

Added walkthrough video links to each lab (#238)
* Added Tenancy setup

Added the ability to run the lab through a tenancy with the appropriate setup information.

* Blurred sensitive info

Blurred sensitive info for ADB screens.

* Updates to add a Tenancy option to the lab

Modified the lab to add a tenancy option and fixed some sandbox screens to account for the differences from a tenacy.

* Renamed a building block file

Renamed the building block file connect-with-sql-worksheet-body.md since the lab uses a local version that wasn't being found. Now called adb-database-actions.md.

* Fixed the ADB screens

Added a type to the manifest.json for the ADB building blocks and created a variables.json file. Also removed some ADB building block screens.

* Removed upper case on image names

Removed upper case for image names in the adb_setup directory.

* Rename ADB_OCID_location.png to adb_ocid_location.png

* Rename ADB_create_user.png to adb_create_user.png

* Rename ADB_page.png to adb_page.png

* Rename SQL-worksheet.png to sql-worksheet.png

* Rename sql-worksheet.png to sql_worksheet.png

* Update create-nationalparks-user.md

Renamed sql-worksheet.png to sql_worksheet.png

* Fixed images and names

Cropped out the URL and renamed sql_worksheet image.

* More name fixes

* Fixed username case

* Added a copy block for the image-search URL

* Changed the username to upper case

* Cropped URL out

* Removed unused files, added more instructions for ADB

* Renamed image files that had capitalization

Renamed image files that had capitalization, added more miscellaneous changes to fix display issues and wording.

* Fixed help email address in manifest files

Fixed help email address in manifest files

* Added video links for each of the labs

Added video links for the walk through videos for each lab.

---------

Co-authored-by: Andy Rivenes <andy.rivenes@gmail.com>

ai-vector-search-fundamentals/5-image_search/image_search.md, after:

# Similarity Search on Images

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to create vector indexes and run approximate similarity searches on images.

Watch the video below for a quick walk-through of the similarity search on images lab:

[Similarity Search on Images](https://videohub.oracle.com/media/Vector-Search-Image-Search-Lab/1_6hwxhdjg)

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Image Similarity Search

In the previous labs, we looked at embedding models and similarity search on text-based data. Now we are going to look at something even more impressive. The ability to use words or phrases to search images. It is also possible to use images to search for similar images, but we will keep it simple in this lab and just use text-based searches to find semantically similar images. The US National Parks dataset that we have been using has two tables. One that describes parks and then another that has images for those parks. We are going to search the images and then also combine a query to join the two tables and look through images based on a general location.

The image vector embeddings have already been created since that would have taken too long for this lab environment, but we will still take a look at them. The embedding model that was used to create the vector embeddings was the CLIP multi-modal embedding pipeline, and can be split into two different ONNX compatible embedding models to allow searching for images based on text words and/or phrases or actual images. This is described in more detail in the [Oracle AI Vector Search User's Guide] (https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/onnx-pipeline-models-multi-modal-embedding.html). The text-based model has already been loaded into the database as you saw earlier, and is called CLIP\_VIT\_TXT.


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Look at the image embedding model characteristics
* Describe the vector column in the images table PARK_IMAGES
* Run exhaustive similarity searches for specific images
* Run combined similarity and relational searches

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Account (oracle.com account)
* All previous labs successfully completed


## Task 1: Display the CLIP embedding model

The CLIP embedding model has already been converted to ONNX format and loaded into the database. This was described in the lab introduction and is the same model that was used to create the vectors of the park images, which were also pre-loaded.

1. Display the CLIP embedding model:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function, algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model query](images/clip_emb_model.png " ")

      
2. Display the model details:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, attribute_name, attribute_type, data_type, vector_info
    FROM user_mining_model_attributes
    WHERE model_name = 'CLIP_VIT_TXT'
    ORDER BY 1,3;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model details query](images/clip_emb_model_details.png " ")

    You may notice that the VECTOR\_INFO column displays 'VECTOR(512,FLOAT32)' for this model which is different than what we saw for the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 model which was VECTOR(384, FLOAT32).  This means that the CLIP text model is wider as it has 512 dimensions.


## Task 2: Display the Vector column in the PARKS_IMAGES table

In this task we will take a look at the PARK\_IMAGES table. The table itself has a URL to the park images, they are not actually stored in the table. Vector embeddings of each of those images have been created and stored in the IMAGES\_VECTOR column. These embeddings were created externally using the CLIP embedding model.

1. Display the columns in the PARK\_IMAGES table by clicking on the arrow next to the PARK\_IMAGES table in the SQL Developer Web navigator column on the left. Alternatively you can right-click on the PARK\_IMAGES table and click the "Open" option.

    See the image below:

    ![vector column](images/park_images_columns.png " ")

2. Display one of the vectors in IMAGE\_VECTOR column:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT image_vector
    FROM park_images
    FETCH FIRST 1 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![image vector](images/image_vector.png " ")

    You can select the IMAGE\_VECTOR and then click on the eye image to expand the entire vector:

    ![image vector details](images/image_vector_details.png " ")

## Task 3: Run image based similarity searches

In this task we will run similar queries to the ones we ran in the previous labs, but now we will use our text phrases to search the image vectors, not text vectors.

1. First we can search for Civil War park images:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, url
    FROM park_images
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'Civil War' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![civil war query](images/query_civil_war_1_run.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL and then click on the eye icon the URL will open in a new window:

    ![civil war url](images/query_civil_war_2_click_eye.png " ")
    
    If you then highlight the URL and right click on it a dialog box will open. Depending on your browser, there should be an option to open the URL in a new window. The following example uses Google Chrome, other browsers use slightly different terminology. With Google Chrome you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser window:
    
    ![civil war url](images/query_civil_war_3_open_url.png " ")
    
    You should see an image like the following:

    ![civil war open image](images/civil_war.png " ")

2. Now let's see if we can find images that have rock climbing:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, url
    FROM park_images
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![rock climbing query](images/query_rock_climbing.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL, click on the eye icon, then highlight the URL and right click you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser tab:

    ![rock climbing image](images/rock_climber.png " ")

3. Lastly, let's search for waterfalls, but let's add a twist. We will add a join to the PARKS table so we can include the park location details. Since the author of this Lab is based out of Redwood Shores, CA we will restrict our query of parks with waterfalls to the western United States:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT p.description, p.city, p.states, pi.url
    FROM park_images pi, parks p
    WHERE pi.park_code = p.park_code
      AND p.states in ('CA','OR','NV','WA','AZ','CO')
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(pi.image_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(clip_vit_txt USING 'waterfall' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![waterfall query](images/query_waterfall_location.png " ")

    If you click on the first URL, click on the eye icon, then highlight the URL and right click you can choose the "Go to ..." option to open the image in a new browser tab:

    ![waterfall image](images/waterfall.png " ")


You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search, April 2025
