orcl-dbcs-19c/patching/patching.md, before:

# Oracle Database Cloud Service patches and updates

## Introduction

The Database Cloud Service patching feature simplifies the steps required to patch your DB systems and databases. You can use the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure console and APIs to view applicable patches for your DB system or database home and submit a patching request. The Database Cloud Service will then run the end-to-end patching steps for you while displaying the status.

You can view all patches that have been applied, and if required, re-apply a patch. In addition, you can use Oracle Identity and Access Management (IAM) controls to manage access to patching features.

Database Cloud Service specific patches for DB systems and database homes can be applied. Only the latest patch is available for DB systems while database homes supports both latest and older patches. You can find the list of currently available DB system and database home patches in the [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure technical documentation](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Database/Tasks/patchingDB.htm).

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

## Task 1: Check Available Updates

1. On Oracle cloud console, click on hamburger menu ≡, then **Bare Metal, VM, and Exadata** under Oracle Database. Click **WS-DB** DB System.

2. Click the database name link **WSDB** in the bottom table called Databases. View Database Version field on the Database Information Page.

    - Database Version: 19.7.0.0.0

3. At the bottom of this page, click on **Updates**.

4. Verify if there are available updates in the table.

    | Patch Description | State | Version  |
    |:----------|:----------|:----------|
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch    | Available    | 19.8.0.0.200714    |

## Task 2: Pre-Check Update Compatibility

1. At the end of the update row, click ⋮ > **Precheck**. Click **Run Precheck** in the Confirm dialog. Patch state is now Checking.

2. Click on **Work Requests**. View the last one in the table:

    - Operation: Patch DB Home
    - Status: In Progress...
    - % Complete: 15%

3. Click on **Patch DB Home** link. Review the Workrequest Information page. Under Resources, click on the links to view more information about this execution:

    - Log Messages (2)
    - Error Messages (0)
    - Associated Resources (2)

4. Wait for the Work Requests to become 100% complete.

5. You can use the breadcrumbs links in the upper section of the page to navigate to superior levels: Overview > Bare Metal, VM and Exadata > DB Systems > DB System Details > Database Home Details > Database Details. Click **Database Details**, wait for Status to become Available.

## Task 3: Apply Patch

1. At the bottom of this page, click again on **Updates**. At the end of the patch row, click ⋮ > **Apply**. Click **OK** in the Confirm dialog. Patch state is now Applying.

2. Click on **Work Requests**. View the last one in the table:

    - Operation: Patch DB Home
    - Status: In Progress...
    - % Complete: 15%

3. Click on **Patch DB Home** link having Status In Progress... Review the Workrequest Information page. Under Resources, click on the links to view more information about this execution:

    - Log Messages (2)
    - Error Messages (0)
    - Associated Resources (2)

4. Wait for the Work Requests to become 100% complete.

5. You can use the breadcrumbs links in the upper section of the page to navigate to superior levels: Overview > Bare Metal, VM and Exadata > DB Systems > DB System Details > Database Home Details > Database Details. Click **Database Details**.

6. Review Database Version field on the Database Information Page. Now it should display the new version, after applying the patch.

    - Database Version: 19.8.0.0.0

7. At the bottom of this page, click **Update History**. Review the list of patches applied to this Database Service instance.

    | Description  | State  | Operation Type  |
    |:----------|:----------|:----------|
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch    | Applied    | Apply    |
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch   | Precheck Passed    | Precheck    |

    You may now **proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements

- **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru
- **Last Updated By/Date** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, DB Product Management, December 2022

See an issue? Please open up a request [here](https://github.com/oracle/learning-library/issues). Please include the workshop name and lab in your request.

Commit message:

add run on your tenancy LWMS ID 5299 (#57)
* added new workshop ID 5307

* updated LWMS ID 5307 with freetier and livelabs

* updated LWMS ID 5307 with freetier and livelabs ws

* updated LWMS ID 5307 images

* completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307

* Completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307 PR changes

* Completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307 tenancy

* added cleanup labs to LWMS ID 5307

* plus cleanup labs to LWMS ID 5307

* Update infra-ocw.md

conflict changes

* fixed some images

* WMS ID 5307 final updates clean up

* OCW get help link

* Update manifest.json

* Update ords-mobile.md

* Fixed qa issues LWMS ID 7863

* Update introduction.md

* fixed mobile workshop

* Last fixes WMS ID 7863

* Minor fixes to WSID 5299

Minor fixes to WSID 5299

* LWMS ID 5299 self QA complete

LWMS ID 5299 self QA complete

* Fixed workshop LWMS ID 5299

Fixed workshop LWMS ID 5299

* Update manifest.json

* add run on your tenancy LWMS ID 5299

* DBCS Features workshop LWMS ID 5299

orcl-dbcs-19c/patching/patching.md, after:

# Oracle Base Database Service patches and updates

## Introduction

The Oracle Base Database Service patching feature simplifies the steps required to patch your DB systems and databases. You can use the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure console and APIs to view applicable patches for your DB system or database home and submit a patching request. The Oracle Base Database Service will then run the end-to-end patching steps for you while displaying the status.

You can view all patches that have been applied, and if required, re-apply a patch.

Oracle Base Database Service specific patches for DB systems and database homes can be applied. Only the latest patch is available for DB systems while database homes supports both latest and older patches. You can find the list of currently available DB system and database home patches in the [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure technical documentation](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Database/Tasks/patchingDB.htm).

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab you will:
* Check available software updates
* Run a Pre-Check task to verify update compatibility
* Execute the Apply Patch procedure on your DB System

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* Provisioned Oracle Base Database Service

## Task 1: Check Available Updates

1. On Oracle cloud console, click on hamburger menu ≡, then **Bare Metal, VM, and Exadata** under Oracle Database. Click **WS-DB** DB System.

2. Click the database name link **WSDB** in the bottom table called Databases. View Database Version field on the Database Information Page.

    - Database Version: 19.7.0.0.0

3. At the bottom of this page, click on **Updates**.

4. Verify if there are available updates in the table.

    | Patch Description | State | Version  |
    |:----------|:----------|:----------|
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch    | Available    | 19.8.0.0.200714    |

## Task 2: Pre-Check Update Compatibility

1. At the end of the update row, click ⋮ > **Precheck**. Click **Run Precheck** in the Confirm dialog. Patch state is now Checking.

2. Click on **Work Requests**. View the last one in the table:

    - Operation: Patch DB Home
    - Status: In Progress...
    - % Complete: 15%

3. Click on **Patch DB Home** link. Review the Workrequest Information page. Under Resources, click on the links to view more information about this execution:

    - Log Messages (2)
    - Error Messages (0)
    - Associated Resources (2)

4. Wait for the Work Requests to become 100% complete.

5. You can use the breadcrumbs links in the upper section of the page to navigate to superior levels: Overview > Bare Metal, VM and Exadata > DB Systems > DB System Details > Database Home Details > Database Details. Click **Database Details**, wait for Status to become Available.

## Task 3: Apply Patch

1. At the bottom of this page, click again on **Updates**. At the end of the patch row, click ⋮ > **Apply**. Click **OK** in the Confirm dialog. Patch state is now Applying.

2. Click on **Work Requests**. View the last one in the table:

    - Operation: Patch DB Home
    - Status: In Progress...
    - % Complete: 15%

3. Click on **Patch DB Home** link having Status In Progress... Review the Workrequest Information page. Under Resources, click on the links to view more information about this execution:

    - Log Messages (2)
    - Error Messages (0)
    - Associated Resources (2)

4. Wait for the Work Requests to become 100% complete.

5. You can use the breadcrumbs links in the upper section of the page to navigate to superior levels: Overview > Bare Metal, VM and Exadata > DB Systems > DB System Details > Database Home Details > Database Details. Click **Database Details**.

6. Review Database Version field on the Database Information Page. Now it should display the new version, after applying the patch.

    - Database Version: 19.8.0.0.0

7. At the bottom of this page, click **Update History**. Review the list of patches applied to this Database Service instance.

    | Description | State | Operation Type |
    |:----------|:----------|:----------|
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch | Applied | Apply |
    | Jul 2020 19c Database patch | Precheck Passed | Precheck |

    You may now **proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements

- **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru
- **Last Updated By/Date** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, DB Product Management, December 2022

## Need help?

Please submit feedback or ask for help using our [LiveLabs Support Forum](https://community.oracle.com/tech/developers/categories/livelabsdiscussions). Please click the **Log In** button and login using your Oracle Account. Click the **Ask A Question** button to the left to start a *New Discussion* or *Ask a Question*.  Please include your workshop name and lab name.  You can also include screenshots and attach files.  Engage directly with the author of the workshop.

If you do not have an Oracle Account, click [here](https://profile.oracle.com/myprofile/account/create-account.jspx) to create one.
