mongo-api/infra-ocw/infra-ocw.md, before:

# Infrastructure configuration

## Introduction

In this lab we will build the infrastructure that we will use to run the rest of the workshop.

The main three elements that we will be creating are a **Virtual Cloud Network** which helps you define your own data center network topology inside the Oracle Cloud by defining some of the following components (Subnets, Route Tables, Security Lists, Gateways, etc.), **Compute instance** using an image from the marketplace including the libraries need to execute the scripts needed to create and execute applications in Python. And finally an **Autonomous JSON Database** where we will allocate the JSON documents that we will ingest our Python apps with.

We will prepare the documents to be capable of accessing to **SODA APIs**, in particular, to create, drop, and list document collections using **APEX** as vehicle to visualize the JSON documents as we used to do with structure data. This capability is unique to Oracle Databases.

Estimated Time: 30 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Verify Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)
* Provision Compute Node for development
* Provision Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)
* Prepare Document Store

### Prerequisites

* An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) account
* Or Oracle LiveLabs sandbox environment

## Task 1: Verify Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

> **Note**: You have to give your resources in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure unique names. Use your name initials + a digit from 0 to 9 to create a code. For example, my code is **ORC1**. You will find this code in the labs as **XXX0**, replace it with your unique code.

1. Submit a reservation, and wait as it is being processed. Under My Reservations, click **Launch Workshop**.

    ![Reserve Workshop](./images/task1/reserve-workshop.png)
    ![Reservation Submitted](./images/task1/reservation-submitted.png)
    ![Launch Workshop](./images/task1/launch-workshop.png)

2. Click **View Login Info** at the top of the page.

    ![View Login Info](./images/task1/view-login-info.png)

3. Click **Copy Password** button. Click **Launch OCI** button.

    ![Reservation Information](./images/task1/reservation-information.png)

4. Paste the password in the corresponding field on the Sign In page.

    ![Sign In](./images/task1/sign-in.png)

5. First time you login, you must change the password.

    ![Change Password](./images/task1/change-password.png)

6. Click on main menu ≡, then Networking > **Virtual Cloud Networks**.

    ![Oracle Console Networking](./images/task1/oracle-console-networking.png)

7. Select your Region and Compartment provided on the Login Info dialog.

    ![Pick Compartment](./images/task1/pick-compartment.png)

8. Click the **LL00000-VCN** you see on the Virtual Cloud Networks page.

    ![Virtual Cloud Network](./images/task1/vcn-pre-created.png)

9. The VCN is created. Click the public subnet **LL00000-SUBNET-PUBLIC**.

    ![Subnet](./images/task1/subnets-pre-created.png)

10. Click the last security list **LL00000-SECLIST**.

    ![Security List](./images/task1/security-lists-pre-created.png)

11. Under Ingress Rules, check ports **5000** for Python Flask and **80** for HTTP are open. These 2 ports are used by the Python micro-service you will develop.

    ![Ingress Rules](./images/task1/ingress-rules-pre-created.png)
    ![Egress Rules](./images/task1/egress-rules-pre-created.png)


## Task 2: Provision Compute Node for development

1. Click on the following link to access to a marketplace image from [Oracle marketplace](https://bit.ly/3CxvsxA).

    ![Marketplace Image](./images/task2/marketplace-image.png)

2. Click **Get App**.

    ![Marketplace Get App](./images/task2/marketplace-get-app.png)

3. Select **Commercial Market** and click **Sign in**.

    ![Marketplace Commercial Market](./images/task2/marketplace-commercial-market.png)

4. In the next screen be sure that you have the correct information:

    - Version: 2.0 (3/4/2022) - default
    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - **Accept** the Oracle standard Terms and Restrictions
    - **Launch Instance**

    ![Marketplace Launch App](./images/task2/marketplace-launch-app.png)

5. Provide the following information, where XXX0 are your initials and a digit you choose, e.g. ORC1:

    - Name:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0VM</copy>
    ```
    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - Image and shape: Use the defaults:
        - Image: **MongoDB and Autonomous JSON workshop**
        - Shape: **VM.Standard.E4.Flex**

    - Networking: Use the defaults:

        - Virtual cloud network: **LL00000-VCN**
        - Subnet: **LL00000-SUBNET-PUBLIC**

    - Download the private and public keys: **Save Private Key**, **Save Public Key**
    - Click **Create**

    ![Create Compute](./images/task2/create-compute.png)

6. Wait for Compute Instance to finish provisioning, and have status Available (click browser Refresh button).
On the Instance Details page, copy Public IP Address in your notes.

    > **Note**: The mame of the instances in the screenshots may be different from yours.

    ![Compute Provisioning](./images/task2/compute-provisioning.png)
    ![Compute Running](./images/task2/compute-running.png)

> **Note**: On the Instance Details page, copy **Public IP Address** in your notes.


## Task 3: Provision Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

1. **Click** on main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/oracle-console-ajson.png)

2. Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Create AJD](./images/task3/create-ajson.png)

3. Provide the following information:

    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - Display name, where XXX0 are your initials and a digit you choose, e.g. ORC1:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0AJD</copy>
    ```
    - Database name:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0AJD</copy>
    ```
    - Choose a workload type: JSON
    - Choose a deployment type: Shared Infrastructure
    - Choose database version: 19c
    - OCPU count: 1
    - Storage (TB): 1 or 0.02 if you are using a Trial account

    ![Creation AJD Dashboard](./images/task3/creation-ajson-dashboard.png)
    ![Creation AJD Dashboard](./images/task3/creation-ajson-dashboard2.png)

4. Under **Create administrator** credentials:

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Creation AJD Password](./images/task3/creation-ajson-password.png)

5. Under **Choose network access**:

    - Access Type: **Secure access from allowed IPs and VCNs only**

    - IP notation type:**IP Address**
    - Click **Add My IP Address**

    ![Creation AJD Network](./images/task3/creation-ajson-network-new.png)

    - Click **+ Access Control Rule**

    - IP notation type: **IP Address**
    - Values: Type your XXX0VM Public-IP, you just copy it at the end of the previous task.

    ![Creation AJD Network](./images/task3/creation-ajson-network-public-ip.png)

6. Under **Choose a license type**:

    - License included

    ![Creation AJD License](./images/task3/creation-ajson-license.png)

7. Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Creation AJD Create](./images/task3/creation-ajson-create.png)

8. Wait for Lifecycle State to become **Available** from Provisioning (click browser Refresh button).

    ![AJD Provisioning](./images/task3/ajson-provisioning.png)
    ![AJD Available](./images/task3/ajson-available.png)

9. Next to the big green box, click **DB Connection**.

    ![AJD DB Connection](./images/task3/ajson-db-connection.png)

10. Click **Download wallet**.

    ![Download Wallet](./images/task3/download-wallet.png)

11. Type the following information:

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Click **Download**

    ![Download Wallet Password](./images/task3/download-wallet-password.png)

12. Click **Save file** and **OK**.

    ![Save Wallet](./images/task3/save-wallet.png)

13. To access your compute instance, you will use the **cloud shell**, a small linux terminal embedded in the OCI interface. **Click** on the **shell** icon next to the name of the OCI region, on the top right corner of the page.

    ![Cloud Shell](./images/task3/cloud-shell.png)

14. **Drag and drop** the previously saved **private key file** (ssh-key-xxx.key) and **wallet file** (Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip) into the **cloud shell**. Be sure both files have been completed checking the **green flag**.

    ![Cloud Shell Files](./images/task3/cloud-shell-files.png)

15. You can **verify** if the files have been transferred correctly using the following command:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    ll   
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Cloud Shell Files](./images/task3/ll.png)

16. We will **copy** the files in our **compute machine** in this case in `/home/opc` through the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP**. **Replace** **Public_IP** with your own one, removing <> too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands, replacing XXX0 with your initials and digit:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    chmod 400 <private-key-file-name>.key
    scp -i <private-key-file-name>.key Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip opc@<Public_IP>:/home/opc
    </copy>
    ````

    ![scp Command](./images/task3/scp-command.png)

    > **Note**: If you are asked: `Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?`, please type **yes** to continue.

17. Now we will stablish an **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace **Public_IP** with your own one, removing <> too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/ssh.png)

18. We will **unzip** the **Wallet** running the following command, replacing XXX0 with your initials and digit:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    unzip Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip -d Wallet_MyAJD
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/unzip-wallet.png)

19. We will **export** the **paths** using the following commands:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    sed -i 's/?\/network\/admin/\${TNS_ADMIN}/g' Wallet_MyAJD/sqlnet.ora
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths Firewall](./images/task3/export-paths-firewall.png)


## Task 4: Prepare Document Store

1. On the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task4/db-actions.png)

    If you need to **Sign in** again remember doing it as admin:
    - User: **admin**
    ```
    <copy>admin</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

2. Under the **Administration** section, click on **Database Users**.

    ![DB Actions - Database Users](./images/task4/database-actions-database-users.png)

3. Click **+ Create User**.

    ![DB Actions - Create User](./images/task4/create-user.png)

4. Create the new user using the following information in the **User** tab:

    - User Name: **DEMO**
    ```
    <copy>DEMO</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Confirm Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Quota on tablespace DATA: **UNLIMITED**
    - Enable **Web Access** and **OML**

    ![DB Actions - Info DEMO User](./images/task4/demo-user-info.png)

4. Change to **Granted Roles** tab. Search by SODA_APP and select **Granted** and **Default**. After click **Create User**.

    ![DB Actions - Info DEMO Granted Roles](./images/task4/granted-roles.png)

    Be sure that the user has been created correctly, exactly like the screenshot.

    ![DB Actions - DEMO User Ready](./images/task4/demo-user-ready.png)

5. Go back to the main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![AJD Dashboard](./images/task4/ajson-dashboard.png)

6. On **Tools tab**, under **Oracle Application Express**, click **Open APEX**.

    ![Apex](./images/task4/apex.png)

7. On **Administration Services** login page, use password for **ADMIN**.

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Apex ADMIN](./images/task4/apex-admin.png)

8. Click **Create Workspace**.

    ![Apex Workspace](./images/task4/apex-workspace.png)

9. In the **How would you like to create your workspace?** screen, select **Existing Schema**.

    ![Apex Workspace](./images/task4/create-workspace.png)

10. Type the following information:

    - Database User: **DEMO**. Use the search menu to find DEMO and select it. You can't type on this field.
    - Workspace User: **DEMO**
    ```
    <copy>DEMO</copy>
    ```
    - Workspace Username: **DEMOWS**
    ```
    <copy>DEMOWS</copy>
    ```
    - Workspace Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Click **Create Workspace**

    ![Apex Workspace DEMO](./images/task4/create-workspace-info.png)

11. Click **DEMO** in the middle of the page to **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    ![Apex Login DEMO](./images/task4/apex-log-in-demo.png)

12. Click **Sign In** Page using the following information:

    - Workspace: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Username: **demows**
    ```
    <copy>demows</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Login DEMO](./images/task4/log-in-demo-new.png)

    **Oracle APEX** uses low-code development to let you build data-driven apps quickly without having to learn complex web technologies. This also gives you access to Oracle REST Data Services, that allows developers to readily expose and/or consume RESTful Web Services by defining REST end points.

13. Go again to **Database Actions** section if your browser tab has being closed.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task4/db-actions.png)

14. **Sign out** as **ADMIN**.

    ![DB Actions ADMIN sign out](./images/task4/sign-out-admin.png)

15. **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    ![DB Actions sign in](./images/task4/database-actions-sign-in.png)

    - Username: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![DB Actions DEMO sign in](./images/task4/sign-in-demo.png)

    You should be connected now as **DEMO** user, check it on the right top corner side of the page.

    ![DB Actions DEMO](./images/task4/database-actions-demo.png)


16. Click **Development** > **JSON**, and follow the tips. This is the interface you will use to manage your JSON collections in this document store.

    ![DB Actions JSON](./images/task4/db-actions-json.png)

17. We will create a Collection to store JSON documents. Click **Create Collection**.

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/create-collection.png)

18. Provide the following information:

    - Collection Name: **SimpleCollection**
    ```
    <copy>SimpleCollection</copy>
    ```
    - Click **Create**

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/create-simple-collection.png)

    You can see the new Collection under the JSON Collection section page.

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/simple-collection.png)

You may now **proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, February 2023

Commit message:

Changes to get content updated to OCW-April 2023

mongo-api/infra-ocw/infra-ocw.md, after:

# Infrastructure configuration

## Introduction

In this lab we will build the infrastructure that we will use to run the rest of the workshop.

The main three elements that we will be creating are a **Virtual Cloud Network** which helps you define your own data center network topology inside the Oracle Cloud by defining some of the following components (Subnets, Route Tables, Security Lists, Gateways, etc.), **Compute instance** using an image from the marketplace including the libraries need to execute the scripts needed to create and execute applications in Python. And finally an **Autonomous JSON Database** where we will allocate the JSON documents that we will ingest our Python apps with.

We will prepare the documents to be capable of accessing to **SODA APIs**, in particular, to create, drop, and list document collections using **APEX** as vehicle to visualize the JSON documents as we used to do with structure data. This capability is unique to Oracle Databases.

Estimated Time: 30 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Verify Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)
* Provision Compute Node for development
* Provision Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)
* Prepare Document Store

### Prerequisites

* An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) account
* Or Oracle LiveLabs sandbox environment

## Task 1: Verify Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

> **Note**: You have to give your resources in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure unique names. Use your name initials + a digit from 0 to 9 to create a code. For example, my code is **ORC1**. You will find this code in the labs as **XXX0**, replace it with your unique code.

1. Submit a reservation, and wait as it is being processed. Under My Reservations, click **Launch Workshop**.

    ![Reserve Workshop](./images/task1/reserve-workshop.png)
    ![Reservation Submitted](./images/task1/reservation-submitted.png)
    ![Launch Workshop](./images/task1/launch-workshop.png)

2. Click **View Login Info** at the top of the page.

    ![View Login Info](./images/task1/view-login-info.png)

3. Click **Copy Password** button. Click **Launch OCI** button.

    ![Reservation Information](./images/task1/reservation-information.png)

4. Paste the password in the corresponding field on the Sign In page.

    ![Sign In](./images/task1/sign-in.png)

5. First time you login, you must change the password.

    ![Change Password](./images/task1/change-password.png)

6. Click on main menu ≡, then Networking > **Virtual Cloud Networks**.

    ![Oracle Console Networking](./images/task1/oracle-console-networking.png)

7. Select your Region and Compartment provided on the Login Info dialog.

    ![Pick Compartment](./images/task1/pick-compartment.png)

8. Click the **LL00000-VCN** you see on the Virtual Cloud Networks page.

    ![Virtual Cloud Network](./images/task1/vcn-pre-created.png)

9. The VCN is created. Click the public subnet **LL00000-SUBNET-PUBLIC**.

    ![Subnet](./images/task1/subnets-pre-created.png)

10. Click the last security list **LL00000-SECLIST**.

    ![Security List](./images/task1/security-lists-pre-created.png)

11. Under Ingress Rules, check ports **5000** for Python Flask and **80** for HTTP are open. These 2 ports are used by the Python micro-service you will develop.

    ![Ingress Rules](./images/task1/ingress-rules-pre-created.png)
    ![Egress Rules](./images/task1/egress-rules-pre-created.png)


## Task 2: Provision Compute Node for development

1. Click on the following link to access to a marketplace image from [Oracle marketplace](https://bit.ly/3CxvsxA).

    ![Marketplace Image](./images/task2/marketplace-image.png)

2. Click **Get App**.

    ![Marketplace Get App](./images/task2/marketplace-get-app.png)

3. Select **Commercial Market** and click **Sign in**.

    ![Marketplace Commercial Market](./images/task2/marketplace-commercial-market.png)

4. In the next screen be sure that you have the correct information:

    - Version: 2.0 (3/4/2022) - default
    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - **Accept** the Oracle standard Terms and Restrictions
    - **Launch Instance**

    ![Marketplace Launch App](./images/task2/marketplace-launch-app.png)

5. Provide the following information, where XXX0 are your initials and a digit you choose, e.g. ORC1:

    - Name:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0VM</copy>
    ```
    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - Image and shape: Use the defaults:
        - Image: **MongoDB and Autonomous JSON workshop**
        - Shape: **VM.Standard.E4.Flex**

    - Networking: Use the defaults:

        - Virtual cloud network: **LL00000-VCN**
        - Subnet: **LL00000-SUBNET-PUBLIC**

    - Download the private and public keys: **Save Private Key**, **Save Public Key**
    - Click **Create**

    ![Create Compute](./images/task2/create-compute.png)

6. Wait for Compute Instance to finish provisioning, and have status Available (click browser Refresh button).
On the Instance Details page, copy Public IP Address in your notes.

    > **Note**: The mame of the instances in the screenshots may be different from yours.

    ![Compute Provisioning](./images/task2/compute-provisioning.png)
    ![Compute Running](./images/task2/compute-running.png)

> **Note**: On the Instance Details page, copy **Public IP Address** in your notes.


## Task 3: Provision Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

1. **Click** on main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/oracle-console-ajson.png)

2. Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Create AJD](./images/task3/create-ajson.png)

3. Provide the following information:

    - Compartment: Be sure you have selected the correct one for this workshop purpose, provided on the Login Info dialog.
    - Display name, where XXX0 are your initials and a digit you choose, e.g. ORC1:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0AJD</copy>
    ```
    - Database name:
    ```
    <copy>XXX0AJD</copy>
    ```
    - Choose a workload type: JSON
    - Choose a deployment type: Shared Infrastructure
    - Choose database version: 19c
    - OCPU count: 1
    - Storage (TB): 1 or 0.02 if you are using a Trial account

    ![Creation AJD Dashboard](./images/task3/creation-ajson-dashboard.png)
    ![Creation AJD Dashboard](./images/task3/creation-ajson-dashboard2.png)

4. Under **Create administrator** credentials:

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Creation AJD Password](./images/task3/creation-ajson-password.png)

5. Under **Choose network access**:

    - Access Type: **Secure access from allowed IPs and VCNs only**

    - IP notation type:**IP Address**
    - Click **Add My IP Address**

    ![Creation AJD Network](./images/task3/creation-ajson-network-new.png)

    - Click **+ Access Control Rule**

    - IP notation type: **IP Address**
    - Values: Type your XXX0VM Public-IP, you just copy it at the end of the previous task.

    ![Creation AJD Network](./images/task3/creation-ajson-network-public-ip.png)

6. Under **Choose a license type**:

    - License included

    ![Creation AJD License](./images/task3/creation-ajson-license.png)

7. Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Creation AJD Create](./images/task3/creation-ajson-create.png)

8. Wait for Lifecycle State to become **Available** from Provisioning (click browser Refresh button).

    ![AJD Provisioning](./images/task3/ajson-provisioning.png)
    ![AJD Available](./images/task3/ajson-available.png)

9. Next to the big green box, click **DB Connection**.

    ![AJD DB Connection](./images/task3/ajson-db-connection.png)

10. Click **Download wallet**.

    ![Download Wallet](./images/task3/download-wallet.png)

11. Type the following information:

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Click **Download**

    ![Download Wallet Password](./images/task3/download-wallet-password.png)

    You can close this window after the wallet has been downloaded.

12. To access your compute instance, you will use the **cloud shell**, a small linux terminal embedded in the OCI interface. **Click** on the **shell** icon next to the name of the OCI region, on the top right corner of the page.

    ![Cloud Shell](./images/task3/cloud-shell.png)

13. **Drag and drop** the previously saved **private key file** (ssh-key-xxx.key) and **wallet file** (Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip) into the **cloud shell**. Be sure both files have been completed checking the **green flag**.

    ![Cloud Shell Files](./images/task3/cloud-shell-files.png)

14. You can **verify** if the files have been transferred correctly using the following command:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    ll   
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Cloud Shell Files](./images/task3/ll.png)

15. We will **copy** the files in our **compute machine** in this case in `/home/opc` through the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP**. **Replace** **Public_IP** with your own one, removing <> too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands, replacing XXX0 with your initials and digit:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    chmod 400 <private-key-file-name>.key
    scp -i <private-key-file-name>.key Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip opc@<Public_IP>:/home/opc
    </copy>
    ````

    ![scp Command](./images/task3/scp-command.png)

    > **Note**: If you are asked: `Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?`, please type **yes** to continue.

16. Now we will stablish an **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace **Public_IP** with your own one, removing <> too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/ssh.png)

17. We will **unzip** the **Wallet** running the following command, replacing XXX0 with your initials and digit:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    unzip Wallet_XXX0AJD.zip -d Wallet_MyAJD
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/unzip-wallet.png)

18. We will **export** the **paths** using the following commands:

    ````bash
    <copy>
    sed -i 's/?\/network\/admin/\${TNS_ADMIN}/g' Wallet_MyAJD/sqlnet.ora
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths Firewall](./images/task3/export-paths-firewall.png)


## Task 4: Prepare Document Store

1. On the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task4/db-actions.png)

    If you need to **Sign in** again remember doing it as admin:
    - User: **admin**
    ```
    <copy>admin</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

2. Under the **Administration** section, click on **Database Users**.

    ![DB Actions - Database Users](./images/task4/database-actions-database-users.png)

3. Click **+ Create User**.

    ![DB Actions - Create User](./images/task4/create-user.png)

4. Create the new user using the following information in the **User** tab:

    - User Name: **DEMO**
    ```
    <copy>DEMO</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Confirm Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Quota on tablespace DATA: **UNLIMITED**
    - Enable **Web Access** and **OML**

    ![DB Actions - Info DEMO User](./images/task4/demo-user-info.png)

4. Change to **Granted Roles** tab. Search by SODA_APP and select **Granted** and **Default**. After click **Create User**.

    ![DB Actions - Info DEMO Granted Roles](./images/task4/granted-roles.png)

    Be sure that the user has been created correctly, exactly like the screenshot.

    ![DB Actions - DEMO User Ready](./images/task4/demo-user-ready.png)

5. Go back to the main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![AJD Dashboard](./images/task4/ajson-dashboard.png)

6. On **Tools tab**, under **Oracle Application Express**, click **Open APEX**.

    ![Apex](./images/task4/apex.png)

7. On **Administration Services** login page, use password for **ADMIN**.

    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Apex ADMIN](./images/task4/apex-admin.png)

8. Click **Create Workspace**.

    ![Apex Workspace](./images/task4/apex-workspace.png)

9. In the **How would you like to create your workspace?** screen, select **Existing Schema**.

    ![Apex Workspace](./images/task4/create-workspace.png)

10. Type the following information:

    - Database User: **DEMO**. Use the search menu to find DEMO and select it. You can't type on this field.
    - Workspace User: **DEMO**
    ```
    <copy>DEMO</copy>
    ```
    - Workspace Username: **DEMOWS**
    ```
    <copy>DEMOWS</copy>
    ```
    - Workspace Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    - Click **Create Workspace**

    ![Apex Workspace DEMO](./images/task4/create-workspace-info.png)

11. Click **DEMO** in the middle of the page to **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    ![Apex Login DEMO](./images/task4/apex-log-in-demo.png)

12. Click **Sign In** Page using the following information:

    - Workspace: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Username: **demows**
    ```
    <copy>demows</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![Login DEMO](./images/task4/log-in-demo-new.png)

    **Oracle APEX** uses low-code development to let you build data-driven apps quickly without having to learn complex web technologies. This also gives you access to Oracle REST Data Services, that allows developers to readily expose and/or consume RESTful Web Services by defining REST end points.

13. Go again to **Database Actions** section if your browser tab has being closed.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task4/db-actions.png)

14. **Sign out** as **ADMIN**.

    ![DB Actions ADMIN sign out](./images/task4/sign-out-admin.png)

15. **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    - Username: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![DB Actions DEMO sign in](./images/task4/sign-in-demo.png)

    You should be connected now as **DEMO** user, check it on the right top corner side of the page.

    ![DB Actions DEMO](./images/task4/database-actions-demo.png)


16. Click **Development** > **JSON**, and follow the tips. This is the interface you will use to manage your JSON collections in this document store.

    ![DB Actions JSON](./images/task4/db-actions-json.png)

17. We will create a Collection to store JSON documents. Click **Create Collection**.

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/create-collection.png)

18. Provide the following information:

    - Collection Name: **SimpleCollection**
    ```
    <copy>SimpleCollection</copy>
    ```
    - Click **Create**

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/create-simple-collection.png)

    You can see the new Collection under the JSON Collection section page.

    ![DB Actions JSON Create Collection](./images/task4/simple-collection.png)

You may now **proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Priscila Iruela, April 2023
