ai-vector-search-fundamentals/2-embedding_models/text_embeddings.md, before:

# Vector Embeddings

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to load a vector embedding model into the database and display it's characteristics.

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Vector Embedding

To enable similarity search, we will need to create vector embeddings for the column(s) we would like to search on, which, in this first lab will be the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table. Vector embeddings are stored in a column of data type VECTOR. A vector embedding is a mathematical vector representation of data points or, more simply, an array of numbers. This vector representation translates semantic similarity into proximity in a mathematical vector space. You will get to see what these numbers look like, but ultimately it is the comparison of distance between any two vectors that enables similarity search.

Vector embeddings are generated using Machine Learning models. How do you decide which embedding model to use? After all, there are open-source embedding models and proprietary embedding models that you might have to pay for, or you could create and train your own embedding models. To add to the confusion, each embedding model has been trained on specific data. The type of embedding model you use will depend on the type of data that you plan to embed and how well that model performs for the searches you or your application need to perform.

Once you decide on one or more embedding models to try, you can choose to create vector embeddings outside the database or inside the database by importing the models directly into Oracle Database if they are compatible with the Open Neural Network Exchange (ONNX) standard. Since Oracle Database uses the ONNX runtime directly within the database, these imported models can be used to generate vector embeddings in Oracle Database.

In this Lab we are going to be searching on a text column, and we will use the all-MiniLM-L12-v2 model. This model was built using the sentence-transformers library. This model takes sentences or paragraphs and converts them into 384-dimensional vectors. Each of these 384 dimensions captures a specific aspect of the sentence's meaning or characteristics. We will be using a pre-built version of this model, which just means that it has already been converted into an ONNX format and is ready to be loaded into the database. You can find the details about how this was done in the blog post [Now Available! Pre-built Embedding Generation model for Oracle Database 23ai] (https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/use-our-prebuilt-onnx-model-now-available-for-embedding-generation-in-oracle-database-23ai).


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Load an embedding model
* Describe and display a vector
* Create a vector column and describe the attributes
* Create vector embeddings on the PARKS table DESCRIPTION column

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Account (oracle.com account)
* All previous labs successfully completed


## Task 1: Load an embedding model into the database

This task will involve identifying and loading an ONNX model into the database. The pre-built all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 will be used as described in the "About Vector Embedding" section above.

1. Let's verify that the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model is not currently loaded:
    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function,algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![Mining models query](images/embedding_models1.png " ")

    You may see the CLIP\_VIT\_TXT embedding model that we will use later in the Image Search lab.

2. Next we will load the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model into the database. The file is in the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR directory. You can display this directory with the following SQL:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT *
    FROM (DBMS_CLOUD.LIST_FILES(directory_name=>'DATA_PUMP_DIR'));
    </copy>
    ```

    ![directory query](images/onnx_directory.png " ")

    We previously placed the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2.onnx file in the operating system directory pointed to by the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR database directory to streamline the Lab. Recall that there is a blog post identified in the "About Vector Embedding" section above that explains the details about this pre-build embedding model.

3. Load the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model into the database:

    ```
    <copy>
    BEGIN
      DBMS_VECTOR.LOAD_ONNX_MODEL('DATA_PUMP_DIR','all_MiniLM_L12_v2.onnx','minilm_l12_v2',
      JSON('{"function" : "embedding", "embeddingOutput" : "embedding", "input": {"input": ["DATA"]}}'));
    END;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![load model sql](images/load_model.png " ")

   Using the DBMS\_VECTOR.LOAD\_ONNX\_MODEL procedure the database read the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2.onnx file in the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR directory and loaded it into the database.

4. Display the newly loaded model:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function,algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model query](images/embedding_models2.png " ")

   You may notice that the 'MINING FUNCTION' column has the attribute of EMBEDDING since this particular machine learning model is an embedding model.

5. Display the model details:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, attribute_name, attribute_type, data_type, vector_info
    FROM user_mining_model_attributes
    where model_name = 'MINILM_L12_V2'
    ORDER BY 1,3;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model details query](images/model_details.png " ")

    You may notice that the VECTOR\_INFO column displays 'VECTOR(384,FLOAT32)' which matches our description in the About section where we stated that the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 model has 384-dimensional vectors and a dimension format of FLOAT32.


## Task 2: Describe and display a vector

AI Vector Search adds a new VECTOR data type to Oracle Database. You can add one or more VECTOR data type columns to your application's table(s) to store vector embeddings. A vector embedding is a mathematical representation of data points or, more simply, an array of numbers. Vector embeddings are generated using Machine Learning models to represent the meaning of the data. We will create vector embeddings in the next lab using the VECTOR data type we add in this lab.

The VECTOR data type is created as a column in a table. You can optionally specify the number of dimensions and their format. If you don't specify any dimension or format, you can enter vectors of different dimensions with different formats. This is a simplification to help you get started with using vectors in Oracle Database with different vector embedding models.  Once you have chosen your preferred vector embedding model, you should define your vector columns with the dimension size and format used by that embedding model.  Vector indexes require that all vectors have the same dimension sizes and types. When the vector dimensions are explicitly defined, the vector search will be faster as the validity checking is done at insert/update time rather than at query time.

The number of dimensions must be strictly greater than zero, with a maximum of 65535 vectors.

The possible dimension formats are:
*	INT8 (8-bit integers) 
*	FLOAT32 (32-bit IEEE floating-point numbers) 
*	FLOAT64 (64-bit IEEE floating-point numbers) 
*	BINARY (packed UINT8 bytes where each dimension is a single bit) 

Now that we have loaded an embedding model let's take a look at what a vector looks like.

1. In the SQL Developer Web window copy the following example of creating a vector embedding for the word 'hello'.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'hello' AS data);
    </copy>
    ```

    See the image below:

    ![vector display](images/vector_example.png " ")

    If you would like to look at the entire vector you can click on the "eye" icon next to the end of the vector display:

    ![vector details](images/vector_example_detail.png " ")

2. Now let's create a vector for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table. We will just create the vector for one row in the table, but in the next section we will create vectors for the entire table based on the DESCRIPTION column.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING description AS data)
    FROM parks
    FETCH FIRST 1 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    See the image below:

    ![table vector query](images/parks_row_vector.png " ")

    Note: your DESCRIPTION, and therefore vector, may be different than in our example since we didn't add an ORDER BY clause. This example is just showing how you can create a vector for one row in the PARKS table.
    
    If you would like to look at the entire vector you can click on the "eye" icon next to the end of the vector display.


## Task 3: Create a vector column and describe the attributes

Now we are ready to take a look at the PARKS table. We will be using the DESCRIPTION column which is a text string describing the particular park's attributes. We will create a vector embedding for this column.

1. In the SQL Developer Web window you can expand the PARKS table by clicking on the arrow just to the left of the PARKS table. The table's columns will display underneath. You can display all of the table attributes by right clicking on the table name and choosing Open.

    See the image below:

    ![table columns](images/parks_columns1.png " ")

2. Next we will add a new column to the table of type VECTOR. We will call the column DESC\_VECTOR.

    ```
    <copy>
    ALTER TABLE parks ADD (desc_vector VECTOR);
    </copy>
    ```

    ![add vector column](images/parks_add_column.png " ")

3. Refresh the screen to see the newly added column:

    ![refreshed view](images/parks_refresh.png " ")

4. Now let's describe the table and take a look at the VECTOR column definitions:

    ```
    <copy>
    DESC parks
    </copy>
    ```

    ![table describe](images/parks_describe.png " ")

    Notice that the column definition is VECTOR(\*,\*,DENSE). Since we didn't specify any dimension or format it has been set to a '*'. This means that we could change the vector dimension and/or format and not have to redefine the column. This can be less disruptive than having to change the column definition.

## Task 4: Create vector embeddings

In this next task we will create vector embeddings on the DESCRIPTION column for all of the rows in the PARKS table.

1. Create vector embeddings for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table:

    ```
    <copy>
    UPDATE parks
    SET desc_vector = VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING description AS data);
    COMMIT;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![add vectors](images/parks_embedding.png " ")

    There are other methods of creating vector embeddings that can be much faster, but for the small number of rows in our PARKS table this was probably the simplest method and only took a short amount of time.


2. Verify that embeddings were created:

    Since the vectors are quite large we will just display a small number of rows to verify our work:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, desc_vector
    FROM parks
    FETCH FIRST 15 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![verify vectors query](images/parks_embeddings_query.png " ")

    We displayed just the first 15 rows, or embeddings, that were created. Feel free to query more rows if you wish. The PARKS table has a total of 472 rows.

You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search, April 2025

Commit message:

Added video links for each of the labs
Added video links for the walk through videos for each lab.

ai-vector-search-fundamentals/2-embedding_models/text_embeddings.md, after:

# Vector Embeddings

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to load a vector embedding model into the database and display it's characteristics.

Watch the video below for a quick walk-through of the vector embeddings lab:

[Vector Embeddings](https://videohub.oracle.com/media/Vector-Search-Embeddings-Lab/1_usorsq27)

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Vector Embedding

To enable similarity search, we will need to create vector embeddings for the column(s) we would like to search on, which, in this first lab will be the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table. Vector embeddings are stored in a column of data type VECTOR. A vector embedding is a mathematical vector representation of data points or, more simply, an array of numbers. This vector representation translates semantic similarity into proximity in a mathematical vector space. You will get to see what these numbers look like, but ultimately it is the comparison of distance between any two vectors that enables similarity search.

Vector embeddings are generated using Machine Learning models. How do you decide which embedding model to use? After all, there are open-source embedding models and proprietary embedding models that you might have to pay for, or you could create and train your own embedding models. To add to the confusion, each embedding model has been trained on specific data. The type of embedding model you use will depend on the type of data that you plan to embed and how well that model performs for the searches you or your application need to perform.

Once you decide on one or more embedding models to try, you can choose to create vector embeddings outside the database or inside the database by importing the models directly into Oracle Database if they are compatible with the Open Neural Network Exchange (ONNX) standard. Since Oracle Database uses the ONNX runtime directly within the database, these imported models can be used to generate vector embeddings in Oracle Database.

In this Lab we are going to be searching on a text column, and we will use the all-MiniLM-L12-v2 model. This model was built using the sentence-transformers library. This model takes sentences or paragraphs and converts them into 384-dimensional vectors. Each of these 384 dimensions captures a specific aspect of the sentence's meaning or characteristics. We will be using a pre-built version of this model, which just means that it has already been converted into an ONNX format and is ready to be loaded into the database. You can find the details about how this was done in the blog post [Now Available! Pre-built Embedding Generation model for Oracle Database 23ai] (https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/use-our-prebuilt-onnx-model-now-available-for-embedding-generation-in-oracle-database-23ai).


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Load an embedding model
* Describe and display a vector
* Create a vector column and describe the attributes
* Create vector embeddings on the PARKS table DESCRIPTION column

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Account (oracle.com account)
* All previous labs successfully completed


## Task 1: Load an embedding model into the database

This task will involve identifying and loading an ONNX model into the database. The pre-built all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 will be used as described in the "About Vector Embedding" section above.

1. Let's verify that the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model is not currently loaded:
    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function,algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![Mining models query](images/embedding_models1.png " ")

    You may see the CLIP\_VIT\_TXT embedding model that we will use later in the Image Search lab.

2. Next we will load the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model into the database. The file is in the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR directory. You can display this directory with the following SQL:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT *
    FROM (DBMS_CLOUD.LIST_FILES(directory_name=>'DATA_PUMP_DIR'));
    </copy>
    ```

    ![directory query](images/onnx_directory.png " ")

    We previously placed the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2.onnx file in the operating system directory pointed to by the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR database directory to streamline the Lab. Recall that there is a blog post identified in the "About Vector Embedding" section above that explains the details about this pre-build embedding model.

3. Load the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 embedding model into the database:

    ```
    <copy>
    BEGIN
      DBMS_VECTOR.LOAD_ONNX_MODEL('DATA_PUMP_DIR','all_MiniLM_L12_v2.onnx','minilm_l12_v2',
      JSON('{"function" : "embedding", "embeddingOutput" : "embedding", "input": {"input": ["DATA"]}}'));
    END;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![load model sql](images/load_model.png " ")

   Using the DBMS\_VECTOR.LOAD\_ONNX\_MODEL procedure the database read the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2.onnx file in the DATA\_PUMP\_DIR directory and loaded it into the database.

4. Display the newly loaded model:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, mining_function,algorithm, algorithm_type, model_size
    FROM user_mining_models;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model query](images/embedding_models2.png " ")

   You may notice that the 'MINING FUNCTION' column has the attribute of EMBEDDING since this particular machine learning model is an embedding model.

5. Display the model details:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT model_name, attribute_name, attribute_type, data_type, vector_info
    FROM user_mining_model_attributes
    where model_name = 'MINILM_L12_V2'
    ORDER BY 1,3;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![model details query](images/model_details.png " ")

    You may notice that the VECTOR\_INFO column displays 'VECTOR(384,FLOAT32)' which matches our description in the About section where we stated that the all\_MiniLM\_L12\_v2 model has 384-dimensional vectors and a dimension format of FLOAT32.


## Task 2: Describe and display a vector

AI Vector Search adds a new VECTOR data type to Oracle Database. You can add one or more VECTOR data type columns to your application's table(s) to store vector embeddings. A vector embedding is a mathematical representation of data points or, more simply, an array of numbers. Vector embeddings are generated using Machine Learning models to represent the meaning of the data. We will create vector embeddings in the next lab using the VECTOR data type we add in this lab.

The VECTOR data type is created as a column in a table. You can optionally specify the number of dimensions and their format. If you don't specify any dimension or format, you can enter vectors of different dimensions with different formats. This is a simplification to help you get started with using vectors in Oracle Database with different vector embedding models.  Once you have chosen your preferred vector embedding model, you should define your vector columns with the dimension size and format used by that embedding model.  Vector indexes require that all vectors have the same dimension sizes and types. When the vector dimensions are explicitly defined, the vector search will be faster as the validity checking is done at insert/update time rather than at query time.

The number of dimensions must be strictly greater than zero, with a maximum of 65535 vectors.

The possible dimension formats are:
*	INT8 (8-bit integers) 
*	FLOAT32 (32-bit IEEE floating-point numbers) 
*	FLOAT64 (64-bit IEEE floating-point numbers) 
*	BINARY (packed UINT8 bytes where each dimension is a single bit) 

Now that we have loaded an embedding model let's take a look at what a vector looks like.

1. In the SQL Developer Web window copy the following example of creating a vector embedding for the word 'hello'.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'hello' AS data);
    </copy>
    ```

    See the image below:

    ![vector display](images/vector_example.png " ")

    If you would like to look at the entire vector you can click on the "eye" icon next to the end of the vector display:

    ![vector details](images/vector_example_detail.png " ")

2. Now let's create a vector for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table. We will just create the vector for one row in the table, but in the next section we will create vectors for the entire table based on the DESCRIPTION column.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING description AS data)
    FROM parks
    FETCH FIRST 1 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    See the image below:

    ![table vector query](images/parks_row_vector.png " ")

    Note: your DESCRIPTION, and therefore vector, may be different than in our example since we didn't add an ORDER BY clause. This example is just showing how you can create a vector for one row in the PARKS table.
    
    If you would like to look at the entire vector you can click on the "eye" icon next to the end of the vector display.


## Task 3: Create a vector column and describe the attributes

Now we are ready to take a look at the PARKS table. We will be using the DESCRIPTION column which is a text string describing the particular park's attributes. We will create a vector embedding for this column.

1. In the SQL Developer Web window you can expand the PARKS table by clicking on the arrow just to the left of the PARKS table. The table's columns will display underneath. You can display all of the table attributes by right clicking on the table name and choosing Open.

    See the image below:

    ![table columns](images/parks_columns1.png " ")

2. Next we will add a new column to the table of type VECTOR. We will call the column DESC\_VECTOR.

    ```
    <copy>
    ALTER TABLE parks ADD (desc_vector VECTOR);
    </copy>
    ```

    ![add vector column](images/parks_add_column.png " ")

3. Refresh the screen to see the newly added column:

    ![refreshed view](images/parks_refresh.png " ")

4. Now let's describe the table and take a look at the VECTOR column definitions:

    ```
    <copy>
    DESC parks
    </copy>
    ```

    ![table describe](images/parks_describe.png " ")

    Notice that the column definition is VECTOR(\*,\*,DENSE). Since we didn't specify any dimension or format it has been set to a '*'. This means that we could change the vector dimension and/or format and not have to redefine the column. This can be less disruptive than having to change the column definition.

## Task 4: Create vector embeddings

In this next task we will create vector embeddings on the DESCRIPTION column for all of the rows in the PARKS table.

1. Create vector embeddings for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table:

    ```
    <copy>
    UPDATE parks
    SET desc_vector = VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING description AS data);
    COMMIT;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![add vectors](images/parks_embedding.png " ")

    There are other methods of creating vector embeddings that can be much faster, but for the small number of rows in our PARKS table this was probably the simplest method and only took a short amount of time.


2. Verify that embeddings were created:

    Since the vectors are quite large we will just display a small number of rows to verify our work:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT description, desc_vector
    FROM parks
    FETCH FIRST 15 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![verify vectors query](images/parks_embeddings_query.png " ")

    We displayed just the first 15 rows, or embeddings, that were created. Feel free to query more rows if you wish. The PARKS table has a total of 472 rows.

You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Product Manager, AI Vector Search
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager, AI Vector Search, April 2025
