ai-vector-search-fundamentals/3-exhaustive_search/exhaustive_search.md, before:

# Exhaustive Similarity Search

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to run exhaustive similarity searches and what is happening during the search.

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Exhaustive Similarity Search

An exhaustive similarity search looks at the distances, based on a given query vector, to all other vectors in a data set. In this type of search, all vectors are compared, and produces the most accurate results.

In this Lab we are going to be performing exhaustive similarity searches on a text column, and we will use the all-MiniLM-L12-v2 model. This is the same model we used in the Embedding Models lab to create the vector embeddings for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table.


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Run exhaustive similarity searches
* Show vector distances to reinforce how the search is evaluated
* Show an execution plan from a query

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Cloud account
* All previous labs successfully completed


*This is the "fold" - below items are collapsed by default*

## Connecting to your Vector Database

The lab environment includes a preinstalled Oracle 23ai Database which includes AI Vector Search. We will be running the lab exercises from a pluggable database called: *orclpdb1* and connecting to the database as the user: *nationalparks*. The Lab will be run using SQL Developer Web.

To connect with SQL Developer Web to run the SQL commands in this lab you will first need to start a browser using the following URL. You will then be prompted to sign in:

  ```
  <copy>google-chrome http://localhost:8080/ords/nationalparks/_sdw/?nav=worksheet</copy>
  ```

After signing in you should see a browser window like the following:

 ![sqldev browser](images/sqldev_web.png " ")


## Task 1: Run exhaustive similarity searches

In this task we will put our work to use and run some exhaustive similarity searches on the DESCRIPTION vector embeddings that we just created in the PARKS table.

1. Our first query will look for parks that are associated with the Civil War:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, city, states, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'Civil War' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![exhaustive query1](images/parks_exhaustive_civil_war.png " ")

    If you know anything about the Civil War you will notice that those are some pretty famous locations. However you might also notice that the words "Civil War" show up in almost all of the descriptions. You might ask, couldn't I have just searched on the term civil war? And that probably would have worked so let's try something a little harder in our next query.

2. For our second query we will try a query with a term, "rock climbing", that doesn't show up in the description:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, city, states, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 using 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![exhaustive query2](images/parks_exhaustive_rock_climbing.png " ")

    The results are even more surprising since only two descriptions have words that are close to "rock climbing". One has "rock climbers" in it, and one mentions "crack climbing", but otherwise no mention of actual rock climbing for parks that appear to be good candidates for rock climbing. We will see later in the Lab how close we actually came.

3. We mentioned in the introduction that vectors are used to search for semantically similar objects based on their proximity to each other. In other words, the embedding process enables the use of specialized algorithms to search for the closest matches to the vector embedding being compared based on the distance between the search vector and the target vectors. Lets add the distance calculation to our query to see how this actually works.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name,
      to_number(VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
        VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)) AS distance,
      description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY 2
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

	 ![distance query](images/parks_exhaustive_rock_climbing_distance.png " ")

    Notice that the distance number, the DISTANCE column, is increasing. This means that the best match is first with the smallest distance and as the distance increases the matches have less and less similarity to the search vector.

4. One last step. Since we are doing exhaustive queries, that is we have not created any vector indexes, what does an execution plan look like?

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```
  
    Click on the "Explain Plan" button and choose the "Advanced View" button to display an image like the one below:

	 ![plan query](images/parks_execute_plan.png " ")

    Notice that a TABLE ACCESS is performed on the PARKS table since we have not defined any indexes. In the next Lab we will take a look at how to create a vector index and perform approximate similarity searches.


You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Markus Kissling, Product Managers
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, April 2025

Commit message:

Pull request for final changes to lab (#207)
* First round of Labs

* Updated first 3 labs

Updated text and images

* Updates and created lab 4

Made image updates and misc changes and added approx search lab 4

* Fixed typos

Fixed some minor typos

* Added image lab

Added search image lab.

* Updated an image

Updated the vector query image

* Finished first draft of Lab

Cleaned up lab markdown files and added final APEX demo lab.

* Minor changes

Changed Introduction so no collapsing
Changed the intro for exact search
Removed password field for connecting to the database

* Update image syntax

Added " " to the end of each image

* SQL syntax and image updates

Update SQL syntax and images
Changed execution plans
Added SQL Dev help in the Intro

* Updated Introduction

Added back Pre-Req and Objectives sections

* Update introduction.md

Fixed the navigation in the introduction

* Updated Intro and demo labs

Added new images and instructions around the demo lab in the introduction and APEX demo labs.

* Added execute plan instructions

Added execute plan instructions

* Final Self-QA Changes

Final Self-QA Changes

* More updates

Changed exact search to exhaustive search
Updated images and added more navigation instructions

* Doug's Updates

Applied Doug's review suggestions.

* Finished updating SQL

Reformatted SQL with upper case reserved words.

* Updated SQL and images

Updated SQL and matching images

* Updates based on Sean's comments

Added Sean's updates and simplified the execution plans.

* Updated images with logo

Updated the APEX demo images with the vector search logo

* Updated APEX demo images

Updated the APEX demo images with new logo and pulldown search terms.

* Modified lab URLs

Modified lab URLs

* Updated connection information

Updated the instructions for connect to SQL Dev Web and the APEX demo using the LL ADB environment.

* Resync

Resync

---------

Co-authored-by: Andy Rivenes <andy.rivenes@gmail.com>

ai-vector-search-fundamentals/3-exhaustive_search/exhaustive_search.md, after:

# Exhaustive Similarity Search

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to run exhaustive similarity searches and what is happening during the search.

Estimated Lab Time: 10 minutes

### About Exhaustive Similarity Search

An exhaustive similarity search looks at the distances, based on a given query vector, to all other vectors in a data set. This type of search produces the most accurate results as all vectors are compared.

In this Lab we are going to be performing exhaustive similarity searches on a text column, and we will use the all-MiniLM-L12-v2 model. This is the same model we used in the Embedding Models lab to create the vector embeddings for the DESCRIPTION column in the PARKS table.


### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Run exhaustive similarity searches
* Show vector distances to reinforce how the search is evaluated
* Show an execution plan from a query

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:
* An Oracle Cloud account
* All previous labs successfully completed


*This is the "fold" - below items are collapsed by default*

## Connecting to your Oracle AI Vector Database

The lab environment is run in Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB) 23ai which includes AI Vector Search. We will be running the lab exercises using SQL Developer Web. The URL to access SQL Developer Web can be found on the Introduction page that will be displayed after you launch the workshop. If you first click on the "View Login Info" button in the upper left corner of the page a pop up page will appear on the right. You can click on the SQL Worksheet link and sign in with the username "nationalparks" and the password "Welcome_12345".

See the image below for an example:

![browser setup](images/browser_setup.png " ")

After signing in you should see a browser window like the following:

![sqldev browser](images/sqldev_web.png " ")


## Task 1: Run exhaustive similarity searches

In this task we will put our work to use and run some exhaustive similarity searches on the DESCRIPTION vector embeddings that we just created in the PARKS table.

1. Our first query will look for parks that are associated with the Civil War:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, city, states, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'Civil War' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![exhaustive query1](images/parks_exhaustive_civil_war.png " ")

    If you know anything about the Civil War you will notice that those are some pretty famous locations. However you might also notice that the words "Civil War" show up in almost all of the descriptions. You might ask, couldn't I have just searched on the term civil war? And that probably would have worked so let's try something a little harder in our next query.

2. For our second query we will try a query with a term, "rock climbing", that doesn't show up in the description:

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, city, states, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 using 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

    ![exhaustive query2](images/parks_exhaustive_rock_climbing.png " ")

    The results are even more surprising since only two descriptions have words that are close to "rock climbing". One has "rock climbers" in it, and one mentions "crack climbing", but otherwise no mention of actual rock climbing for parks that appear to be good candidates for rock climbing. We will see later in the Lab how close we actually came.

3. We mentioned in the introduction that vectors are used to search for semantically similar objects based on their proximity to each other. In other words, the embedding process enables the use of specialized algorithms to search for the closest matches to the vector embedding being compared based on the distance between the search vector and the target vectors. Lets add the distance calculation to our query to see how this actually works.

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name,
      to_number(VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
        VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)) AS distance,
      description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY 2
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```

	 ![distance query](images/parks_exhaustive_rock_climbing_distance.png " ")

    Notice that the distance number, the DISTANCE column, is increasing. This means that the best match is first with the smallest distance and as the distance increases the matches have less and less similarity to the search vector.

4. One last step. Since we are doing exhaustive queries, that is we have not created any vector indexes, what does an execution plan look like?

    ```
    <copy>
    SELECT name, description
    FROM parks
    ORDER BY VECTOR_DISTANCE(desc_vector,
      VECTOR_EMBEDDING(minilm_l12_v2 USING 'rock climbing' AS data), COSINE)
    FETCH EXACT FIRST 10 ROWS ONLY;
    </copy>
    ```
  
    Click on the "Explain Plan" button and choose the "Advanced View" button to display an image like the one below:

	 ![plan query](images/parks_execute_plan.png " ")

    Notice that a TABLE ACCESS is performed on the PARKS table since we have not defined any indexes. In the next Lab we will take a look at how to create a vector index and perform approximate similarity searches.


You may now **proceed to the next lab**


## Learn More

* [Oracle AI Vector Search Users Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/index.html)
* [OML4Py: Leveraging ONNX and Hugging Face for AI Vector Search](https://blogs.oracle.com/machinelearning/post/oml4py-leveraging-onnx-and-hugging-face-for-advanced-ai-vector-search)
* [Oracle Database 23ai Release Notes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/rnrdm/index.html)
* [Oracle Documentation](http://docs.oracle.com)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Andy Rivenes, Product Manager
* **Contributors** - Sean Stacey, Markus Kissling, Product Managers
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Andy Rivenes, April 2025
