mongo-api/mongo-api-ocw/mongo-api-ocw.md, before:

# Python micro-service with the new MongoAPI capability

## Introduction

Oracle Database API for MongoDB lets applications interact with collections of JSON documents in Oracle Database using MongoDB commands.

With the new API, developers can continue to use MongoDB's open-source tools and drivers connected to an Oracle Autonomous JSON Database while gaining access to Oracle’s multi-model capabilities and the benefits of a self-driving database. Customers can now run MongoDB workloads on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI).

Oracle Database understands Mongo-speak. That's the purpose of Oracle Database API for MongoDB.

You have one or more applications that interact with a MongoDB NoSQL database. You're used to using MongoDB commands, particularly for the business logic of your applications (query by example — QBE) but also for data definition (creating collections and indexes), data manipulation (CRUD operations), and some database administration (status information). You expect and depend on the flexibility of a JSON document store: no fixed data schemas, easy to use document-centric APIs.

On the other hand, you're looking to future-proof your applications and make them more robust. You want advanced security; fully ACID transactions (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability); standardized, straightforward JOINs with all sorts of data; and state-of-the-art analytics, machine-learning, and reporting capabilities — all that and more, out of the box.

Oracle Database API for MongoDB, or Mongo API for short, provides all of that. It translates the MongoDB wire protocol into SQL statements that are executed by Oracle Database. This means you can continue to use the drivers, frameworks, and tools you're used to, to develop your JSON document-store applications.


To learn more about this capability go to he following content:
 - [Oracle Database API for MongoDB](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/mongodb-api/mgapi/overview-oracle-database-api-mongodb.html#GUID-1CF44843-6294-45F0-8065-B9E8034D6CB1)
 - [Oracle Database API for MongoDB Blog from Roger Ford, Principal Product Manager] (https://blogs.oracle.com/database/post/mongodb-api)


**Estimated Time: 20 minutes**.

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Use MongoAPI capability for micro-service Python application

### Prerequisites

* Lab 1 and 2 from this content completed


## Task 1: Develop dual document store micro-service using MongoAPI capability

1. Access to **cloud shell** again. If you are not connected to **opc@xxx0vm**, **run** again the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace <Public_IP> with your own one, removing < and > too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task1/ssh.png)

2. We will **export** the **paths** and **Access** to python-simple-project folder using the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    cd python-simple-project
    . bin/activate
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths and Access to Python-simple-project](./images/task1/exports-access.png)

    > Note: We have run these commands before, if you are not disconnected from cloud shell, you don't have to run them again.

3. Lets have a look at **mongoapi-app.py**. In this file, we have the Python application code. Run the following command to see the code:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![cat mongoapi-app](./images/task1/cat-mongoapi-app.png)

3. For the Oracle Autonomous JSON database connection: We are using **demo** user and the **password** that we have recommended during the workshop **DBlearnPTS#22_**. The name of the Oracle Database schema is **demo**. And the Oracle collection is **SimpleCollection**. We will **run** the following export commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export MONGO_USER="demo"
    export MONGO_PASSWORD="DBlearnPTS#22_"
    export MONGO_CLUSTER="Cluster0"
    export MONGO_DB="demo"
    export MONGO_COLLECTION="SimpleCollection"
    </copy>
    ````

    > Note: If you have change the following variables to a different value, please run this commands providing the variable that you have changed. **Remember, we are using the Oracle connections under the MongoDB variables for nor editing the parameters. If you prefer, you can edit them.  Following this method, it is cleaner for the application point of view.**

    The only variable that we need to define, if you haven't changed any variable from the recommended, is **ATP_URL**. A new URL that our AJD has created after adding our IPs in Task 1 of this Lab.

4. On the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task1/db-actions.png)

    If you need to **Sign in** again remember doing it as admin:
    - User: **admin**
    ```
    <copy>admin</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**
    ```
    <copy>DBlearnPTS#22_</copy>
    ```

5. Under the **Related Services** section, click on **Oracle Database API for MongoDB**.

    ![DB Actions - Related Services](./images/task1/database-actions-related-services.png)

6. **Copy** the string: **For newer MongoDB clients and drivers use port 27017 with this connection string**.

    ![DB Actions - Connection String](./images/task1/connection-strings.png)

    It should be something like this:

    ````
    mongodb://[user:password@]<ATP_URL_including_tenancy_id.oraclecloudapp.com>:27017[user]authMechanism=PLAIN&authSource=$external&ssl=true&retryWrites=false&loadBalanced=true
    ````

    We need to copy the URL string representing the complete hostname after your _`[user:password@]`_ and until _`:27017`_, including _`oraclecloudapps.com`_. It should be something like: _`AAA8EFD9AA64AA4-XXX0AJD.adb.eu-frankfurt-1.oraclecloudapps.com`_


7. We will **export** the URL using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    export ATP_URL="URL_FROM_ABOVE"
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ATP URL String connection](./images/task1/atp-url.png)

8. **After checking if all variables are correct**. **Run** mongoapi-app application using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    python3 mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![mongoapi-app Execution](./images/task1/mongoapi-app-execution.png)

9. Use the **web browser** on your laptop to navigate to your micro-service to list JSON documents inserted into Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI capability.

    http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/

     ![Microservice Company MongoAPI capability](./images/task1/)

    > This micro-service has 2 URLs. We already had used previously the Oracle one. In this case we are using a new one /oracle/mongo. Here you have all URLs:
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI

10. Go to **cloud shell terminal.** We will **stop mongoapi-app.py**. for doing this, **press Control + C**.

    ![stop  mongoapi-app](./images/task1/mongoapi-stopping.png)


## Task 2: Create a new MongoCollection through Database Actions


1. On Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task2/db-actions.png)

2. **Sign out** as **ADMIN**.

    ![DB Actions ADMIN sign out](./images/task2/sign-out-admin.png)

3. **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    ![DB Actions sign in](./images/task2/database-actions-sign-in.png)

    - Username: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**
    ```
    <copy>DBlearnPTS#22_</copy>
    ```

    ![DB Actions DEMO sign in](./images/task2/sign-in-demo.png)

    You should be connected now as **DEMO** user, check it on the right top corner side of the page.

    ![DB Actions DEMO](./images/task2/database-actions-demo.png)

4. Click **Development** > **JSON**.

    ![DB Actions JSON](./images/task2/db-actions-json.png)

5. We are going to create a New Collection to insert data using MongoDB Compatible functionality. **Click on New Collection button** on the left side of the screen.

    ![New Collection](./images/task2/new-collection-json.png)

6. Type the name of the new Collection: **MongoCollection**
    ```
    <copy>MongoCollection</copy>
    ```

    ![New MongoCollection JSON](./images/task2/mongo-collection-json.png)

7. You can see the basic fields of a JSON document. **Click MongoDB Compatible** and pay attention of the new `_id` field that has been created on the JSON document. And click **Create**.

    ![New MongoCollection Compatible](./images/task2/mongo-collection-json-compatible.png)

    > Note: Collections created from SODA do not work with MongoDB API because they don't have this `_id` field created by default, you need to select the **Compatible MongoAPI** check.

8. Now your new **MongoCollection** has been created.

    ![New MongoCollection Created](./images/task2/mongo-collection-created.png)


## Task 3: Insert Data in the new MongoCollection using insert-mongoapi-app.py

1. Access to **cloud shell** again. If you are not connected to **opc@xxx0vm**, **run** again the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace <Public_IP> with your own one, removing < and > too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````
    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/ssh.png)

2. We will **export** the **paths** and **Access** to python-simple-project folder using the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    cd python-simple-project
    . bin/activate
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths and Access to Python-simple-project](./images/task3/exports-access.png)

    > Note: We have run these commands before, if you are not disconnected from cloud shell, you don't have to run them again.

3. Lets have a look at **insert-mongoapi-app.py**. In this file, we have the Python application code. Run the following command to see the code:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat insert-mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![cat insert-mongoapi-app](./images/task3/cat-insert-mongoapi-app.png)

4. For the Oracle Autonomous JSON database connection: We are using **demo** user and the **password** that we have recommended during the workshop **DBlearnPTS#22_**. The name of the Oracle Database schema is **demo**. And the Oracle collection is **MongoCollection**. We will **run** the following export commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export MONGO_USER="demo"
    export MONGO_PASSWORD="DBlearnPTS#22_"
    export MONGO_CLUSTER="Cluster0"
    export MONGO_DB="demo"
    export MONGO_COLLECTION="MongoCollection"
    </copy>
    ````

5. Make sure ATP_URL variable is also exported.

    ````
    <copy>
    echo $ATP_URL
    </copy>
    ````

    > Note: If you have change the following variables to a different value, please run this commands providing the variable that you have changed. **Remember, we are using the Oracle connections under the MongoDB variables for nor editing the parameters. If you prefer, you can edit them.  Following this method, it is cleaner for the application point of view.**

    > Note: Remember that we have exported **ATP_URL** on Task number 2 of this lab, so we don't need to export it again.


6. **After checking if all variables are correct**. **Run** mongoapi-app application using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    nohup python3 insert-mongoapi-app.py > insert-mongoapi-app.log 2>&1 & echo $! > insert-mongoapi-app.pid
    </copy>
    ````
    We are executing the insert-mongoapi-app.py with **nohup function** for keep using the terminal for the following steps.

    At the same time, with this command, we are **creating a insert-mongoapi-app.log** where you can check how the python app is behaving.

    Additionally we are **creating a file, insert-mongoapi-app.pid,** to be capable of killing the python app to keep creating the third application for today’s content.

    ![insert-mongoapi-app Execution](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-execution.png)

7. Lets see what **insert-mongoapi-app.py is doing**, use the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat insert-mongoapi-app.log
    </copy>
    ````

    ![insert-mongoapi-app log](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-log.png)

    If you followed the steps correctly, you should see this output in the cloud shell terminal.

    **Your micro-service nsert-mongoapi-app.py is being executed** so we can start inserting the documents.

8. **Copy** the following commands to perform **POST request with CURL client**. Make sure you press **Enter** after each one. First and Second POST:

    ````
    <copy>
    curl --request POST \
            --url http://localhost:5000/oracle/mongo/ \
            --header 'content-type: application/json' \
            --data '{
        "company":"Company Nine",
        "address": {
            "street": "25 Severo Ochoa",
            "city": "Málaga",
            "country": "Spain"
        },
        "industry":"Technology",
        "employees":25550
    }'
    curl --request POST \
            --url http://localhost:5000/oracle/mongo/ \
            --header 'content-type: application/json' \
            --data '{
        "company":"Company Ten",
        "address": {
            "street": "3 Victor Emanouil",
            "city": "Alexandria",
            "country": "Egypt"
        },
        "industry":"Banking",
        "employees":150000
    }'
    </copy>
    ````

    ![POST company nine and ten curl](./images/task3/curl-company-nine-ten.png)

9. Use the **web browser** on your laptop to navigate to your micro-service to list JSON documents inserted into Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI capability.

    http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/

    ![Microservice Company MongoAPI capability MongoCollection](./images/task3/microservice-mongoapi-mongocollection.png)

    > This micro-service has 1 URL. We already had used previosly the Oracle one and the Mongo one. In this case we are using a new one / oracle/mongo. Here you have the others URLS too:
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI

10. We can check that the **Two New Companies** (Nice and Ten) are being stored on our **Autonomous JSON Database**, on **MongoCollection** that we created in Task 3 of this Lab. Go to **Database Actions** again and click green **Play** button.

    ![MongoDB Companies Added Database Actions](./images/task3/database-actions-nine-ten.png)

11. Go to **cloud shell terminal.** We will **stop insert-mongoapi-app.py** running the following command.

    ````
    <copy>
    kill $(cat insert-mongoapi-app.pid)
    </copy>
    ````

    ![kill insert-mongoapi-app](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-kill.png)

**Congratulations! Well done!**

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Priscila Iruela, June 2022

Commit message:

updated LWMS ID 5307 with OCW get help links (#34)
* added new workshop ID 5307

* updated LWMS ID 5307 with freetier and livelabs

* updated LWMS ID 5307 with freetier and livelabs ws

* updated LWMS ID 5307 images

* completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307

* Completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307 PR changes

* Completed lab 1 task 1 LWMS ID 5307 tenancy

* added cleanup labs to LWMS ID 5307

* plus cleanup labs to LWMS ID 5307

* Update infra-ocw.md

conflict changes

* fixed some images

* WMS ID 5307 final updates clean up

* OCW get help link

mongo-api/mongo-api-ocw/mongo-api-ocw.md, after:

# Python micro-service with the new MongoAPI capability

## Introduction

Oracle Database API for MongoDB lets applications interact with collections of JSON documents in Oracle Database using MongoDB commands.

With the new API, developers can continue to use MongoDB's open-source tools and drivers connected to an Oracle Autonomous JSON Database while gaining access to Oracle’s multi-model capabilities and the benefits of a self-driving database. Customers can now run MongoDB workloads on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI).

Oracle Database understands Mongo-speak. That's the purpose of Oracle Database API for MongoDB.

You have one or more applications that interact with a MongoDB NoSQL database. You're used to using MongoDB commands, particularly for the business logic of your applications (query by example — QBE) but also for data definition (creating collections and indexes), data manipulation (CRUD operations), and some database administration (status information). You expect and depend on the flexibility of a JSON document store: no fixed data schemas, easy to use document-centric APIs.

On the other hand, you're looking to future-proof your applications and make them more robust. You want advanced security; fully ACID transactions (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability); standardized, straightforward JOINs with all sorts of data; and state-of-the-art analytics, machine-learning, and reporting capabilities — all that and more, out of the box.

Oracle Database API for MongoDB, or Mongo API for short, provides all of that. It translates the MongoDB wire protocol into SQL statements that are executed by Oracle Database. This means you can continue to use the drivers, frameworks, and tools you're used to, to develop your JSON document-store applications.


To learn more about this capability go to he following content:
 - [Oracle Database API for MongoDB](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/mongodb-api/mgapi/overview-oracle-database-api-mongodb.html#GUID-1CF44843-6294-45F0-8065-B9E8034D6CB1)
 - [Oracle Database API for MongoDB Blog from Roger Ford, Principal Product Manager] (https://blogs.oracle.com/database/post/mongodb-api)


**Estimated Time: 20 minutes**.

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Use MongoAPI capability for micro-service Python application

### Prerequisites

* Lab 1 and 2 from this content completed


## Task 1: Develop dual document store micro-service using MongoAPI capability

1. Access to **cloud shell** again. If you are not connected to **opc@xxx0vm**, **run** again the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace <Public_IP> with your own one, removing < and > too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ssh Connection](./images/task1/ssh.png)

2. We will **export** the **paths** and **Access** to python-simple-project folder using the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    cd python-simple-project
    . bin/activate
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths and Access to Python-simple-project](./images/task1/exports-access.png)

    > Note: We have run these commands before, if you are not disconnected from cloud shell, you don't have to run them again.

3. Lets have a look at **mongoapi-app.py**. In this file, we have the Python application code. Run the following command to see the code:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![cat mongoapi-app](./images/task1/cat-mongoapi-app.png)

3. For the Oracle Autonomous JSON database connection: We are using **demo** user and the strong **password** that we have recommended. The name of the Oracle Database schema is **demo**. And the Oracle collection is **SimpleCollection**. We will **run** the following export commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export MONGO_USER="demo"
    export MONGO_PASSWORD="DBlearnPTS#22_"
    export MONGO_CLUSTER="Cluster0"
    export MONGO_DB="demo"
    export MONGO_COLLECTION="SimpleCollection"
    </copy>
    ````

    > Note: If you have change the following variables to a different value, please run this commands providing the variable that you have changed. **Remember, we are using the Oracle connections under the MongoDB variables for nor editing the parameters. If you prefer, you can edit them.  Following this method, it is cleaner for the application point of view.**

    The only variable that we need to define, if you haven't changed any variable from the recommended, is **ATP_URL**. A new URL that our AJD has created after adding our IPs in Task 1 of this Lab.

4. On the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task1/db-actions.png)

    If you need to **Sign in** again remember doing it as admin:
    - User: **admin**
    ```
    <copy>admin</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

5. Under the **Related Services** section, click on **Oracle Database API for MongoDB**.

    ![DB Actions - Related Services](./images/task1/database-actions-related-services.png)

6. **Copy** the string: **For newer MongoDB clients and drivers use port 27017 with this connection string**.

    ![DB Actions - Connection String](./images/task1/connection-strings.png)

    It should be something like this:

    ````
    mongodb://[user:password@]<ATP_URL_including_tenancy_id.oraclecloudapp.com>:27017[user]authMechanism=PLAIN&authSource=$external&ssl=true&retryWrites=false&loadBalanced=true
    ````

    We need to copy the URL string representing the complete hostname after your _`[user:password@]`_ and until _`:27017`_, including _`oraclecloudapps.com`_. It should be something like: _`AAA8EFD9AA64AA4-XXX0AJD.adb.eu-frankfurt-1.oraclecloudapps.com`_


7. We will **export** the URL using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    export ATP_URL="URL_FROM_ABOVE"
    </copy>
    ````

    ![ATP URL String connection](./images/task1/atp-url.png)

8. **After checking if all variables are correct**. **Run** mongoapi-app application using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    python3 mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![mongoapi-app Execution](./images/task1/mongoapi-app-execution.png)

9. Use the **web browser** on your laptop to navigate to your micro-service to list JSON documents inserted into Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI capability.

    http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/

     ![Microservice Company MongoAPI capability](./images/task1/)

    > This micro-service has 2 URLs. We already had used previously the Oracle one. In this case we are using a new one /oracle/mongo. Here you have all URLs:
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI

10. Go to **cloud shell terminal.** We will **stop mongoapi-app.py**. for doing this, **press Control + C**.

    ![stop  mongoapi-app](./images/task1/mongoapi-stopping.png)


## Task 2: Create a new MongoCollection through Database Actions


1. On Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console, click **Database Actions** next to the big green box. Allow pop-ups from cloud.oracle.com.

    ![DB Actions](./images/task2/db-actions.png)

2. **Sign out** as **ADMIN**.

    ![DB Actions ADMIN sign out](./images/task2/sign-out-admin.png)

3. **Sign in** as **DEMO** user.

    ![DB Actions sign in](./images/task2/database-actions-sign-in.png)

    - Username: **demo**
    ```
    <copy>demo</copy>
    ```
    - Password: **DBlearnPTS#22_**

    > **Note**: The password specified in this lab guide is just an example. Always use strong passwords.

    ![DB Actions DEMO sign in](./images/task2/sign-in-demo.png)

    You should be connected now as **DEMO** user, check it on the right top corner side of the page.

    ![DB Actions DEMO](./images/task2/database-actions-demo.png)

4. Click **Development** > **JSON**.

    ![DB Actions JSON](./images/task2/db-actions-json.png)

5. We are going to create a New Collection to insert data using MongoDB Compatible functionality. **Click on New Collection button** on the left side of the screen.

    ![New Collection](./images/task2/new-collection-json.png)

6. Type the name of the new Collection: **MongoCollection**
    ```
    <copy>MongoCollection</copy>
    ```

    ![New MongoCollection JSON](./images/task2/mongo-collection-json.png)

7. You can see the basic fields of a JSON document. **Click MongoDB Compatible** and pay attention of the new `_id` field that has been created on the JSON document. And click **Create**.

    ![New MongoCollection Compatible](./images/task2/mongo-collection-json-compatible.png)

    > Note: Collections created from SODA do not work with MongoDB API because they don't have this `_id` field created by default, you need to select the **Compatible MongoAPI** check.

8. Now your new **MongoCollection** has been created.

    ![New MongoCollection Created](./images/task2/mongo-collection-created.png)


## Task 3: Insert Data in the new MongoCollection using insert-mongoapi-app.py

1. Access to **cloud shell** again. If you are not connected to **opc@xxx0vm**, **run** again the **ssh connections** using the **Public IP.** Replace <Public_IP> with your own one, removing < and > too. We copied the Public IP when we provisioned the compute instance few tasks back. Execute the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    ssh -i <private-key-file-name>.key opc@<Public_IP>
    </copy>
    ````
    ![ssh Connection](./images/task3/ssh.png)

2. We will **export** the **paths** and **Access** to python-simple-project folder using the following commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export TNS_ADMIN=/home/opc/Wallet_MyAJD
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/lib
    export PATH=$PATH:/usr/lib/oracle/21/client64/bin/
    cd python-simple-project
    . bin/activate
    </copy>
    ````

    ![Export Paths and Access to Python-simple-project](./images/task3/exports-access.png)

    > Note: We have run these commands before, if you are not disconnected from cloud shell, you don't have to run them again.

3. Lets have a look at **insert-mongoapi-app.py**. In this file, we have the Python application code. Run the following command to see the code:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat insert-mongoapi-app.py
    </copy>
    ````

    ![cat insert-mongoapi-app](./images/task3/cat-insert-mongoapi-app.png)

4. For the Oracle Autonomous JSON database connection: We are using **demo** user and the strong **password** that we have recommended. The name of the Oracle Database schema is **demo**. And the Oracle collection is **MongoCollection**. We will **run** the following export commands:

    ````
    <copy>
    export MONGO_USER="demo"
    export MONGO_PASSWORD="DBlearnPTS#22_"
    export MONGO_CLUSTER="Cluster0"
    export MONGO_DB="demo"
    export MONGO_COLLECTION="MongoCollection"
    </copy>
    ````

5. Make sure ATP_URL variable is also exported.

    ````
    <copy>
    echo $ATP_URL
    </copy>
    ````

    > Note: If you have change the following variables to a different value, please run this commands providing the variable that you have changed. **Remember, we are using the Oracle connections under the MongoDB variables for nor editing the parameters. If you prefer, you can edit them.  Following this method, it is cleaner for the application point of view.**

    > Note: Remember that we have exported **ATP_URL** on Task number 2 of this lab, so we don't need to export it again.


6. **After checking if all variables are correct**. **Run** mongoapi-app application using the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    nohup python3 insert-mongoapi-app.py > insert-mongoapi-app.log 2>&1 & echo $! > insert-mongoapi-app.pid
    </copy>
    ````
    We are executing the insert-mongoapi-app.py with **nohup function** for keep using the terminal for the following steps.

    At the same time, with this command, we are **creating a insert-mongoapi-app.log** where you can check how the python app is behaving.

    Additionally we are **creating a file, insert-mongoapi-app.pid,** to be capable of killing the python app to keep creating the third application for today’s content.

    ![insert-mongoapi-app Execution](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-execution.png)

7. Lets see what **insert-mongoapi-app.py is doing**, use the following command:

    ````
    <copy>
    cat insert-mongoapi-app.log
    </copy>
    ````

    ![insert-mongoapi-app log](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-log.png)

    If you followed the steps correctly, you should see this output in the cloud shell terminal.

    **Your micro-service nsert-mongoapi-app.py is being executed** so we can start inserting the documents.

8. **Copy** the following commands to perform **POST request with CURL client**. Make sure you press **Enter** after each one. First and Second POST:

    ````
    <copy>
    curl --request POST \
            --url http://localhost:5000/oracle/mongo/ \
            --header 'content-type: application/json' \
            --data '{
        "company":"Company Nine",
        "address": {
            "street": "25 Severo Ochoa",
            "city": "Málaga",
            "country": "Spain"
        },
        "industry":"Technology",
        "employees":25550
    }'
    curl --request POST \
            --url http://localhost:5000/oracle/mongo/ \
            --header 'content-type: application/json' \
            --data '{
        "company":"Company Ten",
        "address": {
            "street": "3 Victor Emanouil",
            "city": "Alexandria",
            "country": "Egypt"
        },
        "industry":"Banking",
        "employees":150000
    }'
    </copy>
    ````

    ![POST company nine and ten curl](./images/task3/curl-company-nine-ten.png)

9. Use the **web browser** on your laptop to navigate to your micro-service to list JSON documents inserted into Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI capability.

    http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/

    ![Microservice Company MongoAPI capability MongoCollection](./images/task3/microservice-mongoapi-mongocollection.png)

    > This micro-service has 1 URL. We already had used previosly the Oracle one and the Mongo one. In this case we are using a new one / oracle/mongo. Here you have the others URLS too:
        - http://[XXX0VM public-ip address]:5000/oracle/mongo/ -> for Oracle Autonomous Database using MongoAPI

10. We can check that the **Two New Companies** (Nice and Ten) are being stored on our **Autonomous JSON Database**, on **MongoCollection** that we created in Task 3 of this Lab. Go to **Database Actions** again and click green **Play** button.

    ![MongoDB Companies Added Database Actions](./images/task3/database-actions-nine-ten.png)

11. Go to **cloud shell terminal.** We will **stop insert-mongoapi-app.py** running the following command.

    ````
    <copy>
    kill $(cat insert-mongoapi-app.pid)
    </copy>
    ````

    ![kill insert-mongoapi-app](./images/task3/insert-mongoapi-app-kill.png)

**Congratulations! Well done!**

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Priscila Iruela, June 2022
