mongo-api/cleanup-ocw/cleanup-free-ocw.md, before:

# Clean up (optional)

## Introduction

In this lab we will cleanup the infrastructure that we used to run this workshop.

The main three elements that we will cleanup are the **Autonomous JSON Database** where you stored the JSON documents that we ingested our Python apps with, **Compute instance** using an image from the marketplace including the libraries need to execute the scripts needed to create and execute applications in Python. And finally the **Virtual Cloud Network** which you used to define your own data center network topology inside the Oracle Cloud by defining some of the following components (Subnets, Route Tables, Security Lists, Gateways, etc.).

Estimated Time: 5 minutes

Watch the video below for a quick walk-through of the lab.
[Clean Up](videohub:1_m0vdw69z)

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Terminate Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)
* Terminate Compute Node for development
* Terminate Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

### Prerequisites

* An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) account


## Task 1: Terminate the Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

1. **Click** on main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/oracle-console-ajson.png)

2. Click your **AJDEV** Autonomous JSON Database instance.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/ajd-list.png)

3. Click **More Actions** > **Terminate**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/ajd-terminate.png)

4. To confirm, enter the name of the database that you want to terminate:

    ```
    <copy>AJDEV</copy>
    ```

5. Click **Terminate Autonomous Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/terminate-ajd.png)


## Task 2: Terminate the Compute Node for development

1. Click on main menu ≡, then Compute > **Instances**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/menu-compute-instances.png)

2. Click your **DEVM** compute instance.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/compute-list.png)

3. Click **More Actions** > **Terminate**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/compute-terminate.png)

4. Check **Permanently delete the attached boot volume** check-box.

5. Click **Terminate instance** button.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/terminate-instance.png)


## Task 3: Terminate the Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

1. Click on main menu ≡, then Networking > **Virtual Cloud Networks**. Select your Region and Compartment assigned by the instructor.

    >**Note**: Use **Root** Compartment, oci-tenant(root), to create all resources for this workshop.

    ![Oracle Console Networking](./images/task3/oracle-console-networking.png)

2. Click your **DEVCN** Virtual Cloud Network.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/vcn-list.png)

3. Click **Terminate**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/vcn-terminate.png)

4. Wait for Associated Resources list to populate on Terminate Virtual Cloud Network dialog.

5. When all resources are displayed, click **Terminate All** button.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/terminate-vcn.png)

**Congratulations! Well done!**

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, February 2023

Commit message:

Changes to get content updated to OCW-April 2023

mongo-api/cleanup-ocw/cleanup-free-ocw.md, after:

# Clean up (optional)

## Introduction

In this lab we will cleanup the infrastructure that we used to run this workshop.

The main three elements that we will cleanup are the **Autonomous JSON Database** where you stored the JSON documents that we ingested our Python apps with, **Compute instance** using an image from the marketplace including the libraries need to execute the scripts needed to create and execute applications in Python. And finally the **Virtual Cloud Network** which you used to define your own data center network topology inside the Oracle Cloud by defining some of the following components (Subnets, Route Tables, Security Lists, Gateways, etc.).

Estimated Time: 5 minutes

Watch the video below for a quick walk-through of the lab.
[Clean Up](videohub:1_m0vdw69z)

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

* Terminate Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)
* Terminate Compute Node for development
* Terminate Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

### Prerequisites

* An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) account


## Task 1: Terminate the Oracle Autonomous JSON Database (AJD)

1. **Click** on main menu ≡, then Oracle Database > **Autonomous JSON Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/oracle-console-ajson.png)

2. Click your **AJDEV** Autonomous JSON Database instance.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/ajd-list.png)

3. Click **More Actions** > **Terminate**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/ajd-terminate.png)

4. To confirm, enter the name of the database that you want to terminate:

    ```
    <copy>AJDEV</copy>
    ```

5. Click **Terminate Autonomous Database**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task1/terminate-ajd.png)


## Task 2: Terminate the Compute Node for development

1. Click on main menu ≡, then Compute > **Instances**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/menu-compute-instances.png)

2. Click your **DEVM** compute instance.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/compute-list.png)

3. ClickTask2 **Terminate**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/compute-terminate.png)

4. Check **Permanently delete the attached boot volume** check-box.

5. Click **Terminate instance** button.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task2/terminate-instance.png)


## Task 3: Terminate the Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

1. Click on main menu ≡, then Networking > **Virtual Cloud Networks**. Select your Region and Compartment assigned by the instructor.

    >**Note**: Use **Root** Compartment, oci-tenant(root), to create all resources for this workshop.

    ![Oracle Console Networking](./images/task3/oracle-console-networking.png)

2. Click your **DEVCN** Virtual Cloud Network.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/vcn-list.png)

3. Click **Delete**.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/vcn-terminate.png)

4. Select the **Specific compartments** where the instaltion was done. **Root** was the recommended one and click **Scan**.

    ![Oracle Console Networking ](./images/task3/scan-vcn.png)

5. Wait for Associated Resources list to populate on Terminate Virtual Cloud Network dialog. When all resources are displayed, click **Delete All** button. And finally **Close** the window.

    ![Oracle Console AJD](./images/task3/terminate-vcn.png)

**Congratulations! Well done!**

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Valentin Leonard Tabacaru, Database Product Management and Priscila Iruela, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Contributors** - Victor Martin Alvarez, Technology Product Strategy Director
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Priscila Iruela, April 2023
